[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So here's gonna be
more examples of how to use it.
So here's one piece of middleware that
I highly recommend you take note of.
You will be using it
probably in the next step.
Morgan, Morgan will log all the requests
in the terminal as they come in So
that's the 3rd party middleware.
We MPM installed it and
then we required it.
Here's an arbitrary piece of middleware
called checkAuth and we made it,
you know we made it because
there's a ./ in front of it,
that means it's coming from our files and
it's a piece of middleware that we made.
>> Scott Moss: So
we globally set up morgan, app.use And
then here's an example of like actually
placing middleware on the route itself.
So you can also do that.
So this is application level,
this is like a route level.
Not exactly router level,
we'll get into router level.
But this is like a route level.
So when I do get request to slice to
do is, first run this middleware.
And see what it does.
This middleware can respond
back to the client.
Look like a 401 unauthorized array.
Or you can say, yeah you're good,
I checked the data base, next.
And then come here.
So we can put as many comma separated
middleware as we want right here.
We can also just pass in an array
of middleware right here, too.
And it would work
the same way.
It's pretty convenient.
So the pattern.
Yeah, you had a question?
>> Mark: So how do you stop
the request response cycle?
>> Scott Moss: You either
have to send a response.
So rest.whatever.
>> Mark: Rest.send, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Throw an error.
Or, yeah, one of those two things.
Yes?
>> Mark: So, if you are gonna
cover it later just stop me,
but the app.uses are procedural right?
So if you have separate files and
you break them out is it really load
dependent on which one loads first
that that will be the app.use
that gets ran before each route?
>> Scott Moss: Good question.
So, app.use is procedural and if you break
them out in to different files, luckily
for us, the require method is synchronous
so whatever time you require that file.
So let's say we put some
app.users in here, right?
We pull a few in here and
then right underneath,
maybe the third one,
we require the file to other app.users and
then all those will get ran and then the
ones beneath that require will get ran.
So it's all synchronous.
So yeah, it's still gonna be in order, and
luckily for us require is synchronous so
yeah, that will still guarantee that.
Good question.
>> Scott Moss: Any other
questions on this stuff?
On this example?
Mark.
>> Mark: You might have answered this, but
can you pass an array of functions
as the second param of app.get?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, I answered that.
I think there's a note right
here that says it, too.
Yeah, an array of Middleware.
Yeah, so you can pass in
an array of Middleware, too.
One note though on this cuz
this is kind of confusing.
I said Middleware is a function.
Actually, I'm just gonna show you.
I think it's better just to show you.
So right now the way the middleware,
at least the third-party middleware,
is written is that you notice
that they're always invoked,
like we're always executing the function,
right.
That's executed, that's execute it,
this is executed it, right?
But what value is that return in?
Remember I said middleware is just
a function, so if you were If you
thought about it then you would know that
these methods are just for returning
middleware right, so this is a common
pattern for us to pass an option to our
middleware to expose our function right,
these are our higher order function.
I'll just show you, let's make our own so
you can see what I'm talking
about for options.
It's a function that
takes in some options.
Okay.
And what we want to be able to do is to,
let me put it up top, what we want to
be able to do is come down here and
say app.use and then options and
passes some options like this, like name.
You want to do something like that.
All right.
So that's why this
function takes in options,
but because its middleware
it must return a function.
So that is why.
This is where we would do it.
>> Scott Moss: So now this is the actual
middleware function that's gonna be
executed, right.
So now I can come in here and say, next.
But now I have access to the options
that this person passed in,
right, so
this is high order function here.
So that's why you'll see this a lot,
but I'm telling you this because
sometimes you might see it like this.
Where it's just like 'options'
with no implication.
It's just like, that's my middleware.
I don't want to throw
you off your game but
the reason that's there is
because instead of having that.
It's just like that instead,
that's the only difference.
So this doesn't return a function,
this function is the middleware
whereas before it was a function
dot return the middleware function.
>> Scott Moss: So I recommend when
you start writing your middleware,
pick the pattern that you want and
stick with it.
I choose this pattern because most third
party middleware ues the same pattern.
>> Mark: This pattern
results from closures.
>> Scott Moss: Right, it's a closure.
>> Scott Moss: So just take note of that.
So we'll use third party and
built-in middleware a lot, and
we'll also be creating our own middleware.
So I'll just give an example of what
creating our own middleware looks like.
Here's another example.
So, after I use, for instance, maybe
you want to check to see if they supply
the correct secret word before they went
on, so you'll check the secret word,
see if it's catnip, if it is catnip,
next you may proceed.
If it is not, set the status to a 401 and
send a message that says no.
Right?
And then that will stop.
That won't go into the next one.
So it's simple stuff.
So middleware can do whatever you want.
This is a great place to do things.
Any questions on middleware?
>> Scott Moss: So,
what is middleware again?
>> Scott Moss: Anybody?
>> Student: It's like
an array of callbacks?
>> Scott Moss: It's just a function.
The middleware's just one function.
>> Student: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
It's just one function.
It's just a function.